Metric type 3.0 (#6623)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/developers/metrics/types.md

      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Learn more about DogStatsD'
    - link: 'developers/libraries'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Official and Community created API and DogStatsD client libraries'
---

## Overview

Each metric submitted to Datadog should have a metric type. A metric’s type affects how the metric values are displayed when queried as well as the associated graphing possibilities within Datadog using additional [modifiers][1] and [functions][2]. A metric’s type is displayed on the details side panel for the given metric on the [Metrics Summary page][3].

**Note**: Changing the metric type in this details side panel can potentially change metric behavior in all existing visualizations and monitors; potentially rendering historical data as nonsensical.

The following metric submission types are accepted:

- [COUNT](?tab=count#metric-types)
- [RATE](?tab=rate#metric-types)
- [GAUGE](?tab=gauge#metric-types)
- [HISTOGRAM](?tab=hisogram#metric-types)
- [DISTRIBUTION](?tab=distribution#metric-types)

These different metric submission types are mapped to 4 in-app metric types found within the Datadog web application:

- COUNT
- RATE
- GAUGE
- DISTRIBUTION

> 

Reviewer: Add in: 
"Note:  If you submit a metric to Datadog without a Metric Type, it will appear in-app as "Other". "Other" type cannot be further changed to another in-app type until an initial metric type is submitted.

## Submission vs. In-App type

Metrics are submitted to Datadog in three main ways:

- [Custom Agent check][4]
- [DogStatsD][5]
- [Datadog’s HTTP API][6]

> The majority of data Datadog receives is submitted via the Agent (either Agent check or DogStatsD). For these submission methods, a metric’s type determines how multiple values collected on an Agent in [a flush time interval of 10s][7] are aggregated. The Agent combines these values into a single representative metric value for that interval. This combined value is stored with a single timestamp in Datadog.

Reviewer: The majority of data Datadog receives is submitted via the Agent (either Agent check or DogStatsD). For these submission methods, a metric’s type determines how multiple values collected on an Agent in [a flush time interval][7] are aggregated. The Agent combines these values into a single representative metric value for that interval. This combined value is stored with a single timestamp in Datadog.

Data submitted directly to the Datadog API is not aggregated by Datadog (with the exception of distribution metrics) -- the raw values sent to Datadog are stored as-is.

Refer to the Submission and In-App Types section to see how different metric submission types are mapped to their corresponding in-app types.

## Metric types

### Definition

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "COUNT" %}}

The COUNT metric submission type represents the total number of event occurrences in one time interval. A COUNT can be used to track the total number of connections made to a database or the total number of requests to an endpoint. This number of events can accumulate or decrease over time – it is not monotonically increasing.

**Note**: A COUNT is different from the RATE metric type, which represents this count of events normalized per second given the defined time interval.

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "RATE" %}}

> The RATE metric submission type represents the total number of events occurrences per second. A RATE can be used to track how often something is happening—like the frequency of connections made to a database or the flow of requests made to an endpoint.

Reviewer: The RATE metric submission type represents the total number of events occurrences per second in one time interval. A RATE can be used to track how often something is happening—like the frequency of connections made to a database or the flow of requests made to an endpoint.

**Note**: A RATE is different from the COUNT metric submission type, which represents the total number of events in the given time interval.

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "GAUGE" %}}

The GAUGE metric submission type represents a snapshot of events in one time interval. This representative snapshot value is the last value submitted to the Agent during a time interval. A GAUGE can be used to take a measure of something reporting continuously-- like the available disk space or memory used.

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "HISTOGRAM" %}}

The HISTOGRAM metric submission type represents the statistical distribution of a set of values calculated Agent-side in one time interval. Datadog’s HISTOGRAM metric type is an extension of the StatsD timing metric type: the Agent aggregates the values that are sent in a defined time interval and produces different metrics which represent the set of values.

> If you send `X` values for a HISTOGRAM metric `<METRIC_NAME>` in a given flush interval, the following metrics are produced by the Agent by default:

Reviewer: If you send `X` values for a HISTOGRAM metric `<METRIC_NAME>` in a given time interval, the following metrics are produced by the Agent by default:

| `avg:<METRIC_NAME>`   | Represents the average of those `X` values in the time interval                                                                                      | GAUGE               |
| `count:<METRIC_NAME>` | Represents the number of points sampled in the time interval, `X`. The Agent then sends it as a RATE so it would show in app the value `X/interval`. | RATE                |
| `max:<METRIC_NAME>`   | Represents the maximum value of those `X` values sent in the time interval.                                                                          | GAUGE               |
| `min:<METRIC_NAME>`   | Represents the minimum value of those `X` sent in the time interval.                                                                                 | GAUGE               |
| `sum:<METRIC_NAME>`   | Represents the sum of all `X` values sent in the time interval                                                                                       | GAUGE               |

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### Example

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "COUNT" %}}

> Suppose you’re submitting a COUNT metric , `activeusers.basket_size`, from a single host running the Datadog Agent. This metric emits the following values in a 10s time interval: `[1,1,1,2,2,2,3,3]`.

Reviewer: Suppose you’re submitting a COUNT metric , `activeusers.basket_size`, from a single host running the Datadog Agent. This metric emits the following values in a flush time interval: `[1,1,1,2,2,2,3,3]`.

The Agent adds all the values received in one time interval and submits the total number, in this case `15`, as the COUNT metric’s value.

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "RATE" %}}

> Suppose you’re submitting a RATE metric , `queue_messages.rate`, from a single host running the Datadog Agent. This metric emits the following values in a 10s time interval: `[1,1,1,2,2,2,3,3]`.

Reviewer: Suppose you’re submitting a RATE metric , `queue_messages.rate`, from a single host running the Datadog Agent. This metric emits the following values in a flush time interval: `[1,1,1,2,2,2,3,3]`.

The Agent adds all the values received in one time interval and submits the total number divided by the total number of seconds in this time interval, in this case `1.5`, as the RATE metric’s value.

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "GAUGE" %}}

> Suppose you’re submitting a GAUGE metric , `temperature`, from a single host running the Datadog Agent. This metric emits the following values in a 10s time interval: `[71,71,71,71,71,71,71.5]`.

Reviewer: Suppose you’re submitting a GAUGE metric , `temperature`, from a single host running the Datadog Agent. This metric emits the following values in a flush time interval: `[71,71,71,71,71,71,71.5]`.

The Agent submits the last reported number, in this case `71.5`, as the GAUGE metric’s value.

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "HISTOGRAM" %}}

> For example, suppose you’re submitting a HISTOGRAM metric, `request.response_time.histogram`, from one web server which reports the values `[1,1,1,2,2,2,3,3]` in a defined time interval. By default, the Agent submits the following metrics to Datadog which represent the statistical distribution of these values in this time interval:

Reviewer: Suppose you’re submitting a HISTOGRAM metric, `request.response_time.histogram`, from one web server which reports the values `[1,1,1,2,2,2,3,3]` in a flush time interval. By default, the Agent submits the following metrics to Datadog which represent the statistical distribution of these values in this time interval:

| Metric Name                                    | Value  | Datadog In-app Type |
| ---------------------------------------------- | ------ | ------------------- |

> | `request.response_time.histogram.avg`          | `1,88` | GAUGE               |

Reviewer: | `request.response_time.histogram.avg`          | `1.88` | GAUGE               |

| `request.response_time.histogram.count`        | `8`    | RATE                |
| `request.response_time.histogram.median`       | `2`    | GAUGE               |
| `request.response_time.histogram.95percentile` | `3`    | GAUGE               |
| `request.response_time.histogram.max`          | `3`    | GAUGE               |

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "DISTRIBUTION" %}}

> Suppose you’re submitting a DISTRIBUTION metric, `request.response_time.distribution`, from two webservers: `webserver:web_1` and `webserver:web_2`. Suppose in one time interval, webserver:web_1 reports the metric with the values `[1,1,1,2,2,2,3,3]`, and `webserver:web_2` reports the same metric with the values `[1,1,2]`. Over this time interval, the following 5 aggregations will represent the global statistical distribution of all values collected from both webservers:

Reviewer: Suppose you’re submitting a DISTRIBUTION metric, `request.response_time.distribution`, from two webservers: `webserver:web_1` and `webserver:web_2`. Suppose in a given flush time interval, webserver:web_1 reports the metric with the values `[1,1,1,2,2,2,3,3]`, and `webserver:web_2` reports the same metric with the values `[1,1,2]`. Over this time interval, the following 5 aggregations will represent the global statistical distribution of all values collected from both webservers:

| Metric Name                                | Value  | Datadog In-app Type |
| ------------------------------------------ | ------ | ------------------- |

> | `avg:request.response_time.distribution`   | `1,73` | GAUGE               |

Reviewer: | `avg:request.response_time.distribution`   | `1.73` | GAUGE               |

| `count:request.response_time.distribution` | `11`   | RATE                |
| `max:request.response_time.distribution`   | `3`    | GAUGE               |
| `min:request.response_time.distribution`   | `1`    | GAUGE               |
| `sum:request.response_time.distribution`   | `19`   | GAUGE               |

#### Calculation of percentile aggregations

Like other metric types, such as GAUGE or HISTOGRAM, the DISTRIBUTION metric type has the following aggregations available: `count`, `min`, `max`, `sum`, and `avg`. Distribution metrics are initially tagged the same way as other metrics (with custom tags set in the code).

> Additional percentile aggregations (`p50`, `p75`, `p90`, `p95`, `p99`) can be added to distribution metrics. If you were to add percentile aggregations to your distribution metric (as shown in-app Datadog Distribution Metric page), the following 5 additional aggregations are available for query:

Reviewer: Additional percentile aggregations (`p50`, `p75`, `p90`, `p95`, `p99`) can be added to distribution metrics. If you were to add percentile aggregations to your distribution metric in-app, the following 5 additional aggregations are available for query:

| ---------------------------------------- | ----- | ------------------- |
| `p50:request.response_time.distribution` | `2`   | GAUGE               |
| `p75:request.response_time.distribution` | `2`   | GAUGE               |
| `p90:request.response_time.distribution` | `3`   | GAUGE               |
| `p95:request.response_time.distribution` | `3`   | GAUGE               |
| `p99:request.response_time.distribution` | `3`   | GAUGE               |

That is, for a distribution metric with added percentile aggregations during a given time interval, the following 10 aggregations are available: `count`, `sum`, `min`, `max`, `avg`, `p50`, `p75`, `p90`, `p95`, and `p99`.

#### Customization of tagging

This functionality allows you to control tagging for metrics where host-level granularity is not necessary. See the [Distribution Metric page][1] to learn more about whitelist-based tagging control.

**Note**: The exclusion of tags with `!` is not accepted with this feature.

[1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/metric/distribution_metrics
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### Submission

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "COUNT" %}}

Submit your COUNT type metrics from one of the following sources:

> | Submission Source | Submission Method (python)           | Submission Type | Datadog In-App Type |

Reviewer: Alphabetize this table
| ----------------- | ------------------------------------ | --------------- | ------------------- |
| [Agent check][3]  | `self.count(...)`                    | COUNT           | COUNT               |
| [Agent check][4]  | `self.monotonic_count(...)`          | COUNT           | COUNT               |
| [API][1]          | `api.Metric.send(type="count", ...)` | COUNT           | COUNT               |
| [DogStatsD][2]    | `dog.count(...)`                     | COUNT           | RATE                |
| [DogStatsD][2]    | `dog.increment(...)`                 | COUNT           | RATE                |
| [DogStatsD][2]    | `dog.decrement(...)`                 | COUNT           | RATE                |

| [DogStatsD][2]    | `dog.increment(...)`                 | COUNT           | RATE                |
| [DogStatsD][2]    | `dog.decrement(...)`                 | COUNT           | RATE                |
| [Agent check][3]  | `self.count(...)`                    | COUNT           | COUNT               |
| [Agent check][4]  | `self.monotonic_count(...)`          | COUNT           | COUNT               |

**Note**: When submitting a COUNT metric type through DogStatsD, the metric appears as a RATE in-app to ensure relevant comparison across different Agents. Consequently, StatsD counts may appear with a decimal value within Datadog (since they are normalized over a time interval to report units per second).

[1]: /api/?lang=python#post-timeseries-points
[2]: /developers/metrics/dogstatsd_metrics_submission/#count
[3]: /developers/metrics/agent_metrics_submission/?tab=count#count
[4]: /developers/metrics/agent_metrics_submission/?tab=count#monotonic-count
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "RATE" %}}

Submit your RATE type metrics from one of the following sources:

| Submission Source | Submission Method (python)          | Submission Type | Datadog In-App Type |

> | ----------------- | ----------------------------------- | --------------- | ------------------- |

Reviewer: Alphabetize this table:

| [Agent check][2]  | `self.rate(...)`                    | RATE            | GAUGE               |
| [API][1]          | `api.Metric.send(type="rate", ...)` | RATE            | RATE                |

| [API][1]          | `api.Metric.send(type="rate", ...)` | RATE            | RATE                |
| [Agent check][2]  | `self.rate(...)`                    | RATE            | GAUGE               |

**Note**: When submitting a RATE metric type through DogStatsD, the metric appears as a GAUGE in-app to ensure relevant comparison across different Agents.

[1]: /api/?lang=python#post-timeseries-points
[2]: /developers/metrics/agent_metrics_submission/?tab=rate
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "GAUGE" %}}

Submit your GAUGE type metrics from one of the following sources:

| Submission Source | Submission Method (python)           | Submission Type | Datadog In-App Type |

> | ----------------- | ------------------------------------ | --------------- | ------------------- |

Reviewer: Alphabetize this table: 

| [Agent check][3]  | `self.gauge(...)`                    | GAUGE           | GAUGE               |
| [API][1]          | `api.Metric.send(type="gauge", ...)` | GAUGE           | GAUGE               |
| [DogStatsD][2]    | `dog.gauge(...)`                     | GAUGE           | GAUGE               |

| [API][1]          | `api.Metric.send(type="gauge", ...)` | GAUGE           | GAUGE               |
| [DogStatsD][2]    | `dog.gauge(...)`                     | GAUGE           | GAUGE               |
| [Agent check][3]  | `self.gauge(...)`                    | GAUGE           | GAUGE               |

[1]: /api/?lang=python#post-timeseries-points
[2]: /developers/metrics/dogstatsd_metrics_submission/#gauge
[3]: /developers/metrics/agent_metrics_submission/?tab=gauge
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "HISTOGRAM" %}}

Submit your HISTOGRAM type metrics from one of the following sources:

| Submission Source | Submission Method (python) | Submission Type | Datadog In-App Type |

> | ----------------- | -------------------------- | --------------- | ------------------- |

Reviewer: alphabetize this table

| [Agent check][2]  | `self.histogram(...)`      | HISTOGRAM       | GAUGE, RATE         |
| [DogStatsD][1]    | `dog.histogram(...)`       | HISTOGRAM       | GAUGE, RATE         |

| [DogStatsD][1]    | `dog.histogram(...)`       | HISTOGRAM       | GAUGE, RATE         |
| [Agent check][2]  | `self.histogram(...)`      | HISTOGRAM       | GAUGE, RATE         |

**Note**: If you submit a TIMER metric to the Datadog Agent, it is equivalent to submitting a HISTOGRAM metric type within DogStatsD (not to be confused with timers in the standard StatsD). Timers represent duration data only; for example, the amount of time a section of code takes to execute or how long it takes to fully render a page.

[1]: /developers/metrics/dogstatsd_metrics_submission/#histogram
[2]: /developers/metrics/agent_metrics_submission/?tab=histogram
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "DISTRIBUTION" %}}

Submit your DISTRIBUTION type metrics from the following source:

> | Submission Source | Submission Method (python) | Submission Type | Datadog In-App Type |

Reviewer: | Submission Source | Submission Method (python) | Submission Type | Datadog In-App Types |

| ----------------- | -------------------------- | --------------- | ------------------- |
| [DogStatsD][1]    | `dog.distribution(...)`    | DISTRIBUTION    | GAUGE, COUNT        |

[1]: /developers/metrics/dogstatsd_metrics_submission/#distribution
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## Submission types and Datadog in-app types

| Submission Source | Submission Method (python)           | Submission Type | Datadog In-App Type |

> | ----------------- | ------------------------------------ | --------------- | ------------------- |

Reviewer: Move the Agent check rows to be before API

title: Metrics Types
kind: documentation
aliases:
    - /developers/metrics/counts/
    - /developers/metrics/distributions/
    - /developers/metrics/gauges/
    - /developers/metrics/histograms/
    - /developers/metrics/rates/
    - /developers/metrics/sets/
    - /developers/metrics_type/
    - /developers/metrics/metrics_type/
further_reading:
    - link: 'developers/dogstatsd'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Learn more about DogStatsD'
    - link: 'developers/libraries'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Official and Community created API and DogStatsD client libraries'
---

## Overview

> Each metric submitted to Datadog should have a metric type. A metric’s type affects how the metric values are displayed when queried as well as the associated graphing possibilities within Datadog using additional [modifiers][1] and [functions][2]. A metric’s type is displayed on the details side panel for the given metric on the [Metrics Summary page][3].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each metric submitted to Datadog should have a type. A metric’s type affects how the metric values are displayed when queried, as well as the associated graphing possibilities within Datadog using additional [modifiers][1] and [functions][2]. A metric’s type is displayed on the details side panel for the given metric on the [Metrics Summary page][3].
```

> **Note**: Changing the metric type in this details side panel can potentially change metric behavior in all existing visualizations and monitors; potentially rendering historical data as nonsensical.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Note**: Changing the metric type in this details side panel can change metric behavior in all existing visualizations and monitors, potentially rendering historical data as nonsensical.
```

The following metric submission types are accepted:

- [COUNT](?tab=count#metric-types)
- [RATE](?tab=rate#metric-types)
- [GAUGE](?tab=gauge#metric-types)
- [HISTOGRAM](?tab=hisogram#metric-types)
- [DISTRIBUTION](?tab=distribution#metric-types)

These different metric submission types are mapped to 4 in-app metric types found within the Datadog web application:

- COUNT
- RATE
- GAUGE
- DISTRIBUTION

> **Note**: If you submit a metric to Datadog without a Metric Type, it appears as `Other` within Datadog. The `Other` metric type cannot be further changed to another in-app type until an initial metric type is submitted.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Note**: If you submit a metric to Datadog without a type, the metric type appears as `Other` within Datadog. The `Other` metric type cannot be further changed to another in-app type until an initial metric type is submitted.
```

> ## Submission vs. in-app type

Reviewer: ## Submission vs. In-App type

> ## Submission vs. In-App type

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Submission vs. in-app type
```

Metrics are submitted to Datadog in three main ways:

- [Custom Agent check][4]
- [DogStatsD][5]
- [Datadog’s HTTP API][6]

> The majority of data Datadog receives is submitted via the Agent (either Agent check or DogStatsD). For these submission methods, a metric’s type determines how multiple values collected on an Agent in [a flush time interval][7] are aggregated. The Agent combines these values into a single representative metric value for that interval. This combined value is stored with a single timestamp in Datadog.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The majority of data that Datadog receives is submitted by the Agent, either through an Agent check or DogStatsD. For these submission methods, a metric’s type determines how multiple values collected on an Agent in [a flush time interval][7] are aggregated. The Agent combines these values into a single representative metric value for that interval. This combined value is stored with a single timestamp in Datadog.
```

> Data submitted directly to the Datadog API is not aggregated by Datadog (with the exception of distribution metrics) -- the raw values sent to Datadog are stored as-is.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Data submitted directly to the Datadog API is not aggregated by Datadog, with the exception of distribution metrics. The raw values sent to Datadog are stored as-is.
```

> Refer to the Submission and In-App Types section to see how different metric submission types are mapped to their corresponding in-app types.

Reviewer 2: anchor link to submission and in-app type sections

## Metric types

### Definition

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "COUNT" %}}

> The COUNT metric submission type represents the total number of event occurrences in one time interval. A COUNT can be used to track the total number of connections made to a database or the total number of requests to an endpoint. This number of events can accumulate or decrease over time – it is not monotonically increasing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The COUNT metric submission type represents the total number of event occurrences in one time interval. A COUNT can be used to track the total number of connections made to a database or the total number of requests to an endpoint. This number of events can accumulate or decrease over time—it is not monotonically increasing.
```

> 

Reviewer: **Note**: A COUNT is different from the RATE metric type, which represents the number of event occurrences normalized per second given the defined time interval.

> **Note**: A COUNT is different from the RATE metric type, which represents this count of events normalized per second given the defined time interval.

Author: ```suggestion
Note: A COUNT is different from the RATE metric type, which represents the number of event occurrences normalized per second given the defined time interval.
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "RATE" %}}

The RATE metric submission type represents the total number of events occurrences per second in one time interval. A RATE can be used to track how often something is happening—like the frequency of connections made to a database or the flow of requests made to an endpoint.

> **Note**: A RATE is different from the COUNT metric submission type, which represents the total number of events in the given time interval.

Reviewer: **Note**: A RATE is different from the COUNT metric submission type, which represents the total number of event occurrences in the given time interval.

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "GAUGE" %}}

> The GAUGE metric submission type represents a snapshot of events in one time interval. This representative snapshot value is the last value submitted to the Agent during a time interval. A GAUGE can be used to take a measure of something reporting continuously-- like the available disk space or memory used.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The GAUGE metric submission type represents a snapshot of events in one time interval. This representative snapshot value is the last value submitted to the Agent during a time interval. A GAUGE can be used to take a measure of something reporting continuously—like the available disk space or memory used.
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "HISTOGRAM" %}}

The HISTOGRAM metric submission type represents the statistical distribution of a set of values calculated Agent-side in one time interval. Datadog’s HISTOGRAM metric type is an extension of the StatsD timing metric type: the Agent aggregates the values that are sent in a defined time interval and produces different metrics which represent the set of values.

If you send `X` values for a HISTOGRAM metric `<METRIC_NAME>` in a given time interval, the following metrics are produced by the Agent by default:

> | Aggregation                  | Description                                                                                                                                                  | Datadog In-app Type |

Reviewer: | New Metric Name                  | Description                                                                                                                                                  | Datadog In-App Type |

| `<METRIC_NAME>.avg`          | Represents the average of those `X` values in the time interval.                                                                                             | GAUGE               |
| `<METRIC_NAME>.count`        | Represents the number of values sampled during the interval, `X`. The Agent submits this number as a RATE so it would show in app the value of `X/interval`. | RATE                |
| `<METRIC_NAME>.median`       | Represents the median of those `X` values in the time interval.                                                                                              | GAUGE               |
| `<METRIC_NAME>.95percentile` | Represents the 95th percentile of those `X` values in the time interval.                                                                                     | GAUGE               |
| `<METRIC_NAME>.max`          | Represents the maximum value of those `X` values sent during the time interval                                                                               | GAUGE               |

**Note**:

> - Configure which aggregation you want to send to Datadog with the `histogram_aggregates` parameter in your [`datadog.yaml` configuration file][1]. By default, only `max`, `median`, `avg`, and `count` aggregations are sent out to Datadog. `sum` and `min` are available for addition.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Configure which aggregation you want to send to Datadog with the `histogram_aggregates` parameter in your [`datadog.yaml` configuration file][1]. By default, only `max`, `median`, `avg`, and `count` aggregations are sent out to Datadog. `sum` and `min` are also available.
```

> - Configure which aggregation you want to send to Datadog with the `histogram_aggregates` parameter in your [`datadog.yaml` configuration file][1]. By default, only `max`, `median`, `avg`, and `count` aggregations are sent out to Datadog. `sum` and `min` are also available.

Reviewer: - Configure which aggregations you want to send to Datadog with the `histogram_aggregates` parameter in your [`datadog.yaml` configuration file][1]. By default, only `max`, `median`, `avg`, and `count` aggregations are sent to Datadog. `sum` and `min` are also available.

> - Configure which percentile aggregation you want to send to Datadog with the `histogram_percentiles` parameter in your [`datadog.yaml` configuration file][2]. By default, only the `95percentile` is sent out to Datadog.

Reviewer: - Configure which percentile aggregation you want to send to Datadog with the `histogram_percentiles` parameter in your [`datadog.yaml` configuration file][2]. By default, only the `95percentile` is sent to Datadog.

[1]: https://github.com/DataDog/datadog-agent/blob/04d8ae9dd4bc6c7a64a8777e8a38127455ae3886/pkg/config/config_template.yaml#L106-L114
[2]: https://github.com/DataDog/datadog-agent/blob/04d8ae9dd4bc6c7a64a8777e8a38127455ae3886/pkg/config/config_template.yaml#L116-L121
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "DISTRIBUTION" %}}

The DISTRIBUTION metric submission type represents the global statistical distribution of a set of values calculated across your entire distributed infrastructure in one time interval. A DISTRIBUTION can be used to instrument logical objects, like services, independently from the underlying hosts.

Unlike the HISTOGRAM metric type, which aggregates on the Agent during a given time interval, a DISTRIBUTION metric sends all the raw data during a time interval to Datadog, and aggregations occur server-side. Because the underlying data structure represents raw, unaggregated data, distributions provide two major features:

- Calculation of percentile aggregations
- Customization of tagging

If you send `X` values for a DISTRIBUTION metric `<METRIC_NAME>` in a given time interval, the following aggregations are available for query by default:

> | Aggregation           | Description                                                                                                                                          | Datadog In-app Type |

Reviewer: | Aggregation           | Description                                                                                                                                          | Datadog In-App Type |

| --------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------- |

> | `avg:<METRIC_NAME>`   | Represents the average of those `X` values in the time interval                                                                                      | GAUGE               |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `avg:<METRIC_NAME>`   | Represents the average of those `X` values in the time interval.                                                                                      | GAUGE               |
```

| `min:<METRIC_NAME>`   | Represents the minimum value of those `X` sent in the time interval.                                                                                 | GAUGE               |
| `sum:<METRIC_NAME>`   | Represents the sum of all `X` values sent in the time interval                                                                                       | GAUGE               |

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### Example

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "COUNT" %}}

Suppose you are submitting a COUNT metric, `activeusers.basket_size`, from a single host running the Datadog Agent. This metric emits the following values in a flush time interval: `[1,1,1,2,2,2,3,3]`.

The Agent adds all the values received in one time interval and submits the total number, in this case `15`, as the COUNT metric’s value.

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "RATE" %}}

Suppose you are submitting a RATE metric, `queue_messages.rate`, from a single host running the Datadog Agent. This metric emits the following values in a flush time interval: `[1,1,1,2,2,2,3,3]`.

> The Agent adds all the values received in one time interval and submits the total number divided by the total number of seconds in this time interval, in this case if the flush interval is 10 seconds, the value submitted would be `1.5`, as the RATE metric’s value.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Agent adds all the values received in one time interval and submits the total number divided by the total number of seconds in this time interval. In this case, if the flush interval is 10 seconds, the value submitted would be `1.5`, as the RATE metric’s value.
```

> The Agent adds all the values received in one time interval and submits the total number divided by the total number of seconds in this time interval. In this case, if the flush interval is 10 seconds, the value submitted would be `1.5`, as the RATE metric’s value.

Reviewer: In this case, if the flush interval is 10 seconds, the value submitted would be `1.5` as the RATE metric’s value.

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "GAUGE" %}}

Suppose you are submitting a GAUGE metric, `temperature`, from a single host running the Datadog Agent. This metric emits the following values in a flush time interval: `[71,71,71,71,71,71,71.5]`.

The Agent submits the last reported number, in this case `71.5`, as the GAUGE metric’s value.

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "HISTOGRAM" %}}

For example, suppose you are submitting a HISTOGRAM metric, `request.response_time.histogram`, from one web server which reports the values `[1,1,1,2,2,2,3,3]` in a flush time interval. By default, the Agent submits the following metrics to Datadog which represent the statistical distribution of these values in this time interval:

> | Metric Name                                    | Value  | Datadog In-app Type |

Reviewer: | Metric Name                                    | Value  | Datadog In-App Type |

| ---------------------------------------------- | ------ | ------------------- |
| `request.response_time.histogram.avg`          | `1.88` | GAUGE               |
| `request.response_time.histogram.count`        | `8`    | RATE                |
| `request.response_time.histogram.median`       | `2`    | GAUGE               |
| `request.response_time.histogram.95percentile` | `3`    | GAUGE               |
| `request.response_time.histogram.max`          | `3`    | GAUGE               |

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "DISTRIBUTION" %}}

> Suppose you are submitting a DISTRIBUTION metric, `request.response_time.distribution`, from two webservers: `webserver:web_1` and `webserver:web_2`. Suppose in a given flush time interval, webserver:web_1 reports the metric with the values `[1,1,1,2,2,2,3,3]`, and `webserver:web_2` reports the same metric with the values `[1,1,2]`. Over this time interval, the following 5 aggregations will represent the global statistical distribution of all values collected from both webservers:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Suppose you are submitting a DISTRIBUTION metric, `request.response_time.distribution`, from two webservers: `webserver:web_1` and `webserver:web_2`. Suppose in a given flush time interval, `webserver:web_1` reports the metric with the values `[1,1,1,2,2,2,3,3]`, and `webserver:web_2` reports the same metric with the values `[1,1,2]`. Over this time interval, the following five aggregations will represent the global statistical distribution of all values collected from both webservers:
```

> | Metric Name                                | Value  | Datadog In-app Type |

Reviewer: | Metric Name                                | Value  | Datadog In-App Type |

| ------------------------------------------ | ------ | ------------------- |
| `avg:request.response_time.distribution`   | `1.73` | GAUGE               |
| `count:request.response_time.distribution` | `11`   | RATE                |
| `max:request.response_time.distribution`   | `3`    | GAUGE               |
| `min:request.response_time.distribution`   | `1`    | GAUGE               |
| `sum:request.response_time.distribution`   | `19`   | GAUGE               |

#### Calculation of percentile aggregations

Like other metric types, such as GAUGE or HISTOGRAM, the DISTRIBUTION metric type has the following aggregations available: `count`, `min`, `max`, `sum`, and `avg`. Distribution metrics are initially tagged the same way as other metrics (with custom tags set in the code).

> Additional percentile aggregations (`p50`, `p75`, `p90`, `p95`, `p99`) can be added to distribution metrics. If you were to add percentile aggregations to your distribution metric in-app, the following 5 additional aggregations are available for query:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Additional percentile aggregations (`p50`, `p75`, `p90`, `p95`, `p99`) can be added to distribution metrics. If you were to add percentile aggregations to your distribution metric in-app, the following five additional aggregations are available for query:
```

      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Learn more about DogStatsD'
    - link: 'developers/libraries'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Official and Community created API and DogStatsD client libraries'
---

## Overview

Each metric submitted to Datadog should have a type. A metric’s type affects how the metric values are displayed when queried, as well as the associated graphing possibilities within Datadog using additional [modifiers][1] and [functions][2]. A metric’s type is displayed on the details side panel for the given metric on the [Metrics Summary page][3].

**Note**: Changing the metric type in this details side panel can change metric behavior in all existing visualizations and monitors, potentially rendering historical data as nonsensical.

The following metric submission types are accepted:

- [COUNT](?tab=count#metric-types)
- [RATE](?tab=rate#metric-types)
- [GAUGE](?tab=gauge#metric-types)
- [HISTOGRAM](?tab=hisogram#metric-types)
- [DISTRIBUTION](?tab=distribution#metric-types)

These different metric submission types are mapped to 4 in-app metric types found within the Datadog web application:

- COUNT
- RATE
- GAUGE
- DISTRIBUTION

> **Note**: If you submit a metric to Datadog without a type, the metric type appears as `Not Assigned` within Datadog. The `Not Assigned` metric type cannot be further changed to another in-app type until an initial metric type is submitted.

Author: ```suggestion
**Note**: If you submit a metric to Datadog without a type, the metric type appears as `Other` within Datadog. The `Other` metric type cannot be further changed to another in-app type until an initial metric type is submitted.
```

[1]: /developers/metrics/agent_metrics_submission/?tab=count#count
[2]: /developers/metrics/agent_metrics_submission/?tab=count#monotonic-count
[3]: /api/?lang=python#post-timeseries-points
[4]: /developers/metrics/dogstatsd_metrics_submission/#count

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "RATE" %}}

Submit your RATE type metrics from one of the following sources:

| Submission Source | Submission Method (python)          | Submission Type | Datadog In-App Type |
| ----------------- | ----------------------------------- | --------------- | ------------------- |
| [Agent check][1]  | `self.rate(...)`                    | RATE            | GAUGE               |
| [API][2]          | `api.Metric.send(type="rate", ...)` | RATE            | RATE                |

**Note**: When submitting a RATE metric type through DogStatsD, the metric appears as a GAUGE in-app to ensure relevant comparison across different Agents.

[1]: /developers/metrics/agent_metrics_submission/?tab=rate
[2]: /api/?lang=python#post-timeseries-points

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "GAUGE" %}}

Submit your GAUGE type metrics from one of the following sources:

> | Submission Source | Submission Method (python)           | Submission Type | Datadog In-App Type |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Submission Source | Submission Method (Python)           | Submission Type | Datadog In-App Type |
```

| ----------------- | ------------------------------------ | --------------- | ------------------- |
| [Agent check][1]  | `self.gauge(...)`                    | GAUGE           | GAUGE               |
| [API][2]          | `api.Metric.send(type="gauge", ...)` | GAUGE           | GAUGE               |
| [DogStatsD][3]    | `dog.gauge(...)`                     | GAUGE           | GAUGE               |

[1]: /developers/metrics/agent_metrics_submission/?tab=gauge
[2]: /api/?lang=python#post-timeseries-points
[3]: /developers/metrics/dogstatsd_metrics_submission/#gauge

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "HISTOGRAM" %}}

Submit your HISTOGRAM type metrics from one of the following sources:

> | Submission Source | Submission Method (python) | Submission Type | Datadog In-App Types |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Submission Source | Submission Method (Python) | Submission Type | Datadog In-App Types |
```

| ----------------- | -------------------------- | --------------- | -------------------- |
| [Agent check][1]  | `self.histogram(...)`      | HISTOGRAM       | GAUGE, RATE          |
| [DogStatsD][2]    | `dog.histogram(...)`       | HISTOGRAM       | GAUGE, RATE          |

**Note**: If you submit a TIMER metric to the Datadog Agent, it is equivalent to submitting a HISTOGRAM metric type within DogStatsD (not to be confused with timers in the standard StatsD). Timers represent duration data only; for example, the amount of time a section of code takes to execute or how long it takes to fully render a page.

[1]: /developers/metrics/agent_metrics_submission/?tab=histogram
[2]: /developers/metrics/dogstatsd_metrics_submission/#histogram

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "DISTRIBUTION" %}}

Submit your DISTRIBUTION type metrics from the following source:

> | Submission Source | Submission Method (python) | Submission Type | Datadog In-App Types |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Submission Source | Submission Method (Python) | Submission Type | Datadog In-App Types |
```

| ----------------- | -------------------------- | --------------- | -------------------- |
| [DogStatsD][1]    | `dog.distribution(...)`    | DISTRIBUTION    | GAUGE, RATE          |

[1]: /developers/metrics/dogstatsd_metrics_submission/#distribution

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## Submission types and Datadog in-app types

Find below a summary of all available metric submission sources and methods with the mapping between the corresponding metric submission type and the in-app types:

> | Submission Source | Submission Method (python)           | Submission Type | Datadog In-App Types |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Submission Source | Submission Method (Python)           | Submission Type | Datadog In-App Types |
```
